Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee.
We are very honored today to have with us one of the most distinguished men in the whole
United States.
A leader of the Democratic majority in the United States Senate, old friend of mine who
my served in the House of Representatives, and a man that I don't need to introduce to
the people of Tennessee because he's well known, the distinguished majority leader of
the Senate, Senator Lyndon Johnson.
Certainly, thank you very much, Lyndon, for coming and staying with us today.
Thank you, Estes.
I'm pleased to be on this program with you and through the means of television, nature,
many friends in Tennessee.
You have many friends in Texas and we were very pleased that you would come and visit
with us last fall.
We hope you can match the games soon.
Well, I enjoyed it very much and I do hope to come back again.
We want you to come down in person again in Tennessee and see all of our good people.
Friends, some people have been saying that they thought the Congress and the Senate was
getting off to a slow start that has greatly important bills have not been passed.
As I've explained to you from time to time at the beginning of a new session of Congress,
I would like to thank the Congress for the opportunity to introduce new bills to have hearings
on them to get action before committees, before they come out to the floor of the United
States Senate.
This week the Senate really got rolling.
Senator Johnson has been pushing all of us to get our bills out and how does the situation
look now, Lyndon?
I would say that this is the payoff week of the session.
We have passed four appropriation bills and I hope before the weeks out we have passed
more than 300 bills this session, which compared very favorably with the first session of any
Congress since the 80th Congress.
I thank some of the more important bills that we've acted upon.
Mike, be enumerated here.
First, I thought the Senate was at its best in consideration of the so-called Eisenhower
We took the message of the centrist and general terms and we worked it, put some good democratic
amendments in it and passed it.
We passed the public law 480 that permits us to exchange a billion dollars worth of surplus
agricultural goods with other nations in return for strategic materials from them.
We passed a billion and a half dollar conservation bills but control bills which is now pending
in the house.
As far as we passed eight appropriation bills and reduced the budget by 7.5 percent, although
we've increased it for services in the field of hard cancer and health items.
Well, I think that's coming along fine and all these bills have been well considered and
fairly discussed and we're getting along with our work.
I was very much interested in a very statesman-like speech on the health that you made in New
York last Saturday suggesting that the exchange of televisions and radio programs were
the Russians to write them to say something as we could see in our homes and for us to
get a message into their homes.
Will you tell us something about that Senate in Johnson?
Thank you, Estres.
The summit conferences have produced a result.
I thank the two most important nations before the American people at this armament and
training of the hydrogen bomb.
I think unless we are able to find a solution to these two issues, we may all wind up by
a very serious result.
I said to New York that we trusted the American people.
We trusted their intelligence, coochaf came and made a television appearance in each American
home.
But we are not fearful that Americans will be contaminated with communism.
Therefore, we propose that we have the open curtain and that the Russian people allow
eyelidish to come into their homes through television and through radio.
The Secretary of State says it's a good proposal that he can previously suggested.
I'm going to ask that it be pressed.
I hope that the United Nations and every time we are in a air shot of a Russian that we
will insist on this program being put in effect.
Well, I think your program and your suggestion is far reaching.
We will have a lot of good effect and I'm glad you are going to see it.
I know we all appreciate your state leadership and I want to thank you very much for being on this program.
Until next week at this time, goodbye to all of you.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, this past week is a Senate-Judish airwritment
committee of which I am a member, which is considering President Eisenhower's civil rights
bill that its first vote in connection with that bill matters been discussed in general terms
for some time that the first vote came last week.
The vote came on an amendment sponsored by Senator Irvin of North Carolina.
I voted against Senator Irvin's amendment and I want to discuss with you why I did so.
The President's civil rights bill is in four parts.
The first part establishes a commission to be appointed by the President
where the Advising Consent of the Senate.
This commission is a fact-finding body.
One of its primary functions is to investigate allegations and writing concerning any citizen being the president.
I think that something worthwhile may be worked out of this commission.
It doesn't have any enforcement power.
It's simply a commission to try to ascertain certain facts.
The second part provides for the appointment of an assistant of an additional assistant to the current general.
To assist the Attorney General in administering this statute.
The idea I think here is that they want to eliminate the criminal division on civil rights
and put it in a civil phase.
And I think something worthwhile might be worked out of this section.
The third part gives the Attorney General authority to institute action and enforcement of this statute.
And the fourth part is intended to secure and protect the right of vote.
Senator Irvin's amendment would have stricken from the bill all except the fourth section.
That is, the right to vote.
Now I've voted against this amendment because I don't believe this is the proper way to see.
I think that in a bill such as this you consider it section by section.
I furthermore think that these sections are interrelated and that they all in the final analysis are concerned with the right to vote.
In other words, the first section provides a method of finding facts and connection with any denial of the election franchise.
The second and the third sections provide the personnel and the means of importance and so on.
Now I don't think you can properly consider any measure if you start out by cutting three of the sections out of the bill altogether.
There are various amendments, dozens of them, that ought to be considered to those sections.
And they can't be considered if they are all cut out of the bill and they open vote.
Personally I believe this is important or submit a trial by jury amendment because I think that's fundamental just like the right of voting.
And I think also that there should be limitations spelled out on the authority of the attorney general.
I think there's something worthwhile maybe worked out of the various sections of this bill.
I want the amendments that any senator has pending considered.
And I want the amendments which I may submit and will submit to the city.
And then to have the sections voted on one by one in the light of any amendments adopted.
And it's only after the amendments have been acted upon as you can see that we can see whether we want that section or not.
Now basically as you can see all of this revolves around guaranteeing a person they write to vote in federal elections that the president's numbers of Congress and Senate.
I don't think any person should be denied.
Here's a her elective franchise because of race, color or religion.
And I believe that the vast majority of Tennessee and share that view both national parties registered in their platform.
And there was no argument against it either of the national convention.
Ladies and gentlemen as a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee I have a responsibility in connection with this legislation which I did not particularly see.
It is not an easy task, particularly when so many on both sides of this question are allowing their emotions rather than their heads to guard their.
As you try to do what I think is right and just in the consideration of this bill.
This bill has nothing to do with the very troublesome problem of segregation or integration of the schools or FEPC or anything of that kind.
It is intended to deal with and deal only with the right of franchise.
I personally feel that this is a very important principle and that any citizen who meets the requirements of a state as to education, age or residence should be entitled to vote.
And here's right in that respect, also to be respected.
This is a very fundamental principle of our democracy.
The wider exercise of that responsibility will make our country strong.
Thank you and goodbye and we'll next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I want to talk with you today about business.
During the past few years I have been increasingly concerned about what is happening in the overall business picture.
The fact is that the big are getting bigger and the small and increasing numbers are going out of business all together.
In our competitive free enterprise economy, one has to make profits in order to stay in business.
One way to show what is happening is to take a look at this at the profit picture.
I have here a chart, a data for which was obtained from the Federal Trade Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
It shows what is happening to the medium and the small business people in the picture today.
Here are many thousands of small corporations doing business of less than a million dollars,
get less than 10% of the profit and it's then gradually decreasing.
And then here we see the large corporations doing business in excess of 100 million dollars.
That their profit has gone up the amount of profit that they get is above 62%.
And we see that the medium sized businesses that they have been in this place too.
Here is another chart. It shows graphically the increasing number of small business figures.
Here we see that beginning in 1950, small business figures went down for a while.
And about 1952, starting at 240 on this chart, it's gone up to the end of 1956 to about 380.
Then we see the profits of the stock prices, of the big business corporations starting here in 1950 at about 140,
has gone up to about 210.
It's been a slight decrease. This line has gone down.
They've stopped prices in the last few months a little bit.
But the curve for the amount of small business figures has gone up in the last two or three months.
Now I'm giving you this background in order to bring into perspective my Congress was concerned
that something with this problem that it was during this week.
On the Senate floor taxes were being discussed.
A lot of us agreed with Senators Chalbhawbright to chairman of the banking committee.
That despite the rising cost of government, small business needed some tax relief.
If it doesn't come soon, there's just going to be less small business to tax.
I supported Senators Chalbhawbright's amendment for a graduated corporate tax.
Although I frankly say that a much more fundamental overhaul of the tax structure is called for.
Obviously there will be none for coming during this year.
For my own part, I have spent many hours recently presiding over legislative hearings on a proposed amendment to the Robinson Petman Act.
I'm sure that most of you have heard of this act.
It is sometimes called the magnet Carter of small business.
Its purpose is to give all business as big as one is little, a fair break and the competitive race to survive.
The Robinson Petman Act would do their stop for prohibiting dollars with monopolistic power from unfair price discrimination.
That is, giving one corner merchant a cheaper price than his neighbor across the street.
Just so you can drive him out of business.
When it was first passed, this act was capable of achieving this goal.
It isn't anymore. Court decisions have so stripped away its authority that it is not possible to prevent dollars with monopoly power from driving small and independent businesses to the world.
Having thus cornered the market, they can charge customers whatever they wish and most housewives know what I'm talking about here.
Before the number of my colleagues, I have sponsored this bill.
It is the subject of our hearings at the present time.
In the Senate, it is known as S11.
In the house where an identical bill is sponsored by representatives of the right petman, one of the original authors of the Robinson Petman Act, it is known as HR11.
I think enactment of this bill which restores to the act that power at originally was intended to have would go a long, long way towards saving small business.
I hope to be successful. Thank you and goodbyes and I'll next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, with this telecast today, I am beginning a series of weekly five minute reports to the people of Tennessee.
In these reports, I intend to cover in a factual, non-political way the activities of the week in Congress and in Washington.
I want to express my very deep appreciation to this station for carrying these broadcasts as a public service teacher.
And now if our democracy is to work well, it is important that there be consultations such as these between the elected representatives and the people that they represent.
In these telecasts, I shall tell you what is happening in Congress.
My view is on the matters under consideration and why I voted the way I did.
We may not always agree. Two people sell and agree on everything. I shall be grateful in turn for receiving your views and your ideals.
There was a great deal of excitement in Washington on Thursday as the new Congress was organized.
In the United States Senate, there is only a two-vote margin between the Democrats and the Republicans.
The Democrats organized the Congress, elected that great elderly senator from Arizona, Senator Carl Hayden, as a President, pro-Tem,
and Senator Lyndon Johnson of Texas as the majority leader.
It should be pointed out that in the United States Senate, they vote between the Democrats and Republicans are so close that the control of the Senate may change sometime during its term, at least that possibility.
In the House of Representatives, the Democrats have a 32 or 33 margin so that Sam Rayburn was elected again, a speaker of the House of Representatives,
a Sam Rayburn who came from Rockwood, Tennessee, of course, as a little boy and moved out to the state of Texas.
And Congressman John McCormick of Massachusetts was reelected as the majority leader.
The minority of Republican leader in the House of Representatives is Joe Martin of Massachusetts, and in the United States Senate is Bill Nolan, Senator Bill Nolan of the state of California.
And then on Friday, there was great excitement as President Eisenhower came up to Capitol Hill looking very well, heel-in-hardy.
He received a great hand from members of Congress on both sides of the aisle to deliver his state of the Union message.
And of course, you have heard or read most of the things that were contained in that monumental recommendation and report to the Congress of the United States.
The President's session of Congress convened in an atmosphere of international affairs.
The Middle Eastern situation was dealt with in a special message that was delivered to Congress by President Eisenhower.
He asked for increased economic aid and for authority to for the use of troops to stop the Soviet or communist aggression anywhere in that area.
My initial reaction to this program is one of less wait and see, but study carefully and consider what we are doing.
Generally speaking, I think favor a system where the result would be an increase in the total productive capacity of the Middle East nations involved.
So the greatest problems of that area is the poor standards of living, of where they do not have enough to provide for the necessities of life in many many cases.
And of course, such conditions as these do breed communism.
Better economic conditions would tend to stabilize the area.
And in my opinion, there will never be real peace there until the living standards of the people is raised.
That was reason that I favor the TVA on the Jordan River, which was recommended a long time ago by a team of experts from the Tennessee Valley Authority who went over to study the problem.
But I will want to study the President's proposal to see if it's the proposal is that type of aid.
As for blanket use of troops, my first reaction is that there's nothing that should require this step.
Congress is in session and I think any emergency could be dealt with expeditiously and kind of immediately.
Such blanket authority may be subject to misuse, not by the President of course, but by associates who would have to carry out his purpose.
And before granting somebody the right to use troops on their own and perhaps get us into a war, I would want to have a good reason so that we will have to wait and study what the reasons are.
There is of course, but another report from Congress.
And the meantime, I hope you will advise me about any matters that you think might be included in this report.
That's all for now and goodbye. Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, from time to time on this program, we hope to bring you distinguished guests who are known in the government of Washington and we certainly do have a distinguished guest with us today.
We have Tennessee are very proud indeed that the Commissioner of Education, the newly appointed Federal Commissioner of Education as a Tennessee and having lived and been born in Carter County as father lives there.
He was a superintendent of schools in the city of Chapnogh.
And we congratulate Pesnet, Asin Harap on appointing Lawrence, Dirtic as the Commissioner of Education for the United States and Mr. Dirtic is here with us today.
We stand to have you here, Father.
Well, Senator Keith, offer I am certainly delighted to be on your program and to greet my friends in Tennessee.
I hope your father and Elizabeth will be viewing and listening to this program and your daughter down at Memphis.
I'm sure that all the family will be looking on.
This is a most important office, the Commissioner of Education. I understand that it's been in existence for 97 years and we've had 14 commissioners here in the 14th.
I'm number 14. How many have come from Tennessee?
I have been strangely enough and interestingly enough, I'm number 4 from Tennessee. Tennessee is starting to flourish more than any other state.
Well, that certainly is a great tribute to our state and Professor P.T. Flachston was one of the commissioners of education that passed away just a few days ago.
Yes, Dr. Claxton was one of our most distinguished leaders.
Mr. Dirtic, tell us what the Office of Education and U.S. Commissioner has jurisdiction over it.
Well, the Office of Education, traditionally and historically, is designed to collect facts and information and to diffuse those facts and that information throughout the country for the improvement of the schools and otherwise to aid and promote education.
And you have a charge of the Smith viewers and the George Barden programs and many of all the federal programs, grants and aid to the states and things of that sort.
Yes, those are the responsibilities of the Office of Education.
Well, we're all tremendously interested in Tennessee and elsewhere and the federal school construction program.
Will you tell us something about the need for that program and particular reference to Tennessee, if you will?
Yes, indeed. We have a serious school house shortage in this country occasioned by the failure to build classrooms during the Depression and World War II and the Korean War.
Also to the vast increase in birth rate.
We have a million and a quarter more children every year to take care of.
And while estimates vary, a very conservative estimate, we feel is a backlog of 159,000 classrooms.
And we're needed in the nation today.
And how many are needed in 1956 and 10 of C?
Well, we're running behind in Tennessee. We were 20,000 classrooms short in 54, 33,000 short in 55 and 45,000 short in this year.
And the President's program, I believe, calls for how much on the part of the federal government to assist the states.
The Abidian 300 million over four-year period, which makes about 325 million a year.
And how much would Tennessee receive from this program?
Well, Tennessee would receive one of the larger amounts because the President's program is based upon need.
Tennessee is a lot being about under this bill, $12 a child, or a little over $10 million.
Oh, yeah. How about this problem of federal control? That's what a lot...
Everybody knows we need schools and we want health and how about this...
We've had federal aid to education since before the adoption of the Constitution and never had any federal control in the President's bill or the administration bill.
Specifically, prevent it and forbidding. Not only that, the responsibility given to the states administer the program.
And everybody who knows you in Tennessee and your friends in Chattanooga will certainly know that you want them to be administered by local people.
We say the federal government's role is leadership without domination and assistance without interference.
We are very proud of you and thank you very much for coming and dealing with our program.
I know our friends in Tennessee have been glad to see you here for me today.
Thank you very much, Mr. Derrick.
Thank you, sir. I've enjoyed the privilege very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, we have led us today, a gentleman who is of great importance to ours.
State of Tennessee. Our guest today is General Emerson Hitchner.
He was recently confirmed as the Chief of Engineers of the United States Army.
The Army Chief of Engineers, you know, has a dual responsibility.
Not only does he have military responsibilities, but he is also responsible for the so-called Civil Works Program of the Engineers.
This is based on flood control, navigation, power, and other water uses throughout the United States and all of our territories.
I'm delighted to have you with us today, General, and I think we all feel that you're a very capable Chief of the Corps of Engineers.
Thank you, sir. It's a great pleasure and honor for me to be here today with you, particularly because of your very great interest in the comprehensive development of the water resources of this nation.
General in Tennessee, as you know, we have the Tennessee River, which is a coordinated effort for the control of the river by the Tennessee Valley Authority.
But we also have the Cumberland River. And flowing by the western part of the state, we have the great Mississippi.
Now, suppose you tell us about your program in Tennessee. What the engineers have planned for the, well, let's take first the Cumberland River.
So under our activities in Tennessee, I can find mainly to the comprehensive development of the water resources of the Cumberland Basin.
The construction of the project for flood control and navigation in the Eleuvial Valley of Mississippi River and the project for flood protection at Memphis.
The total estimated cost of the active authorized program within Tennessee is $293 million.
However, this amount only $1.6 is for projects not yet started. And in additional appropriations of about $66 million are required to complete the active program in Tennessee.
Well, generally, Cumberland River, of course, diverse as a large part of Tennessee and also Kentucky. Let's have a look at this map here, which shows the, just what has been done and what is underway and what is planned.
So you're explaining this to us for general vision. Senator, we have two projects that have been completed in the Upper Carly Cumberland Valley in Tennessee, Dale Hollow Dam and Century Hill Dam.
In addition, there is the large Wolf Creek project above the line in Kentucky. These three projects were very effective in preventing floods.
This last January in Nashville, we estimate that they saved $6.25 million in flood damage.
Then we also have under construction at this time the old Hickory in the Locking Dam above Nashville, the Chum Locking Dam just below Nashville.
And the large Berkeley Dam near the mouth of the Ohio River is under construction. When these projects are completed, they will provide nine feet of navigation depth to above Nashville.
Well, generally, this is a wonderful program. I understand there will be a canal that connects the Berkeley later in the Barker Dam near the Kentucky Lake.
How much power will all of these dams generate electrical power when the program is completed?
Well, we now have an operation center, a 459,000 kilowatts installed capacity at the center Hill and Dale Hollow projects in Wolf Creek project.
And this year we expect to add an additional 136,000 kilowatts at Cheetah, Manol of Hickory. The Berkeley project when completed will add another 130,000 kilowatts.
And this is a total of 725,000 kilowatts that installed capacity or enough to serve the combined cities of Memphis in Knoxville.
And this is the best commendest now. First of all, fishing on the lakes is very important and these dams all of these lakes, but they won't bite for me.
Now, as far as men it explains, we are very interested in the Memphis Harbor project here on the Tennessee River.
And we hope to get in the cooperation there that's carried on this year. Would you tell us something about that, General?
Well, I would like to thank the project in two phases. The first phase, which is an industrial fill, is largely completed and will be completed with funds at hand.
The second phase will cost about $5 million in the end of the bottoms and bad news of what we hope to complete as soon as we get the money.
Well, thank you so much for the certainly appreciate you coming and being with us and that's all for now, friends.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I have been engaged recently and some extremely interesting conferences concerning one of the great resources, which we must guard most carefully in the United States.
That all brings power. There can no longer be the slightest doubt of the Soviet Union, which is now producing near the twice as many scientists and engineers as is the United States.
There's rapidly overtaking the scientific manpower lead that we held a decade ago. This is a killing reality. Our very existence depends upon our capacity to produce the steel manpower.
We need to keep our defenses and to maintain our rate of industrial development. The Russian educational system is deliberately geared to mass-produced scientists and engineers.
More than 60% of the Russian graduates in 1954 were in scientific field. By contrast, the number in the United States was less than 25%.
In the same year, the Soviets produced about 75,000 graduates in science and engineering compared with 57,000 in this country.
By 1960, the Russians probably will be training out well over 100,000 against perhaps 80,000 for the United States. Furthermore, we can't write these people off just as a lot of numbers, but not much quality. They are good and some of them are very good.
Now let me show you a chart. This was prepared by the Department of Labor, and it shows a very illuminating picture between the years 1955 and 1965.
We will be at a period during which there will be a great gap in the male population between the ages of 25 and 34. There will be 700,000 fewer men in that age group. This is not percentage. This is actual numbers.
This was caused by the fact that there were so many fewer births during the latter of the freshman year.
Now this is the group from which we would be drawing the young scientists and engineers, the young vigorous technicians and workers that we need so badly.
The only answer is that we must make the most vast superior-caning education of the fewer numbers that we have.
Now this chart also shows another great educational topic. In the age group of 14 to 24 born during the early war years, we will have 2.5 million more men than we have at the present time.
These figures show why we are constantly striving just to keep abreast of the numbers of school buildings and teachers that we need.
Now this is a problem with which we must all rest. The Soviet spread is one reason. But even if the Soviet Union does not exist, even if it disappeared from the earth, we would still be faced with this problem.
Because the advancing technology of today will continue to require ever increasing numbers of highly trained people, of scientists, engineers, engineers and technologists.
We want to have a broad base for our education system, unlike the Soviet. We want to have all of our young people have an educational chance.
And then if we do that, a great number of people will get into scientific and engineering and technical professions.
And for the more I think the order to be encouraged to do so because we need them very, very badly.
Well I think the problem is our sufficient seriousness so that I'm preparing a resolution to help Congress study it in all of its aspects.
But representatives of the Armed Services Committee, the Committee on Education and Joint Committee on Atomic Energy, making up the panel.
And for the more, since we know that we cannot fall behind and train manpower and in brainpower, this is a matter in which we must have the cooperation at all levels of government, of principally local and at the state level.
But the federal government does have a responsibility too. Much is being done through the National Science Foundation.
We do have certain aids to education. However the federal government can be of any assistance without actually controlling education, which none of us want, I think it ought to assist.
We have a bill for stool construction to aid and also one for scholarships, scholarships for bright young people who want to be scientists and technicians, which I think ought to be passed.
Thank you and goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, Friends of Tennessee, this past week most of you saw and heard the questions to feel for public support for his budget.
On the day following his appearance, I received four telegrams. Two of them were requested I support the Thursday's position and two of them were that I just regard it.
So that on the basis of these conflicting views, it's difficult to conclude that the test has aroused much public opinion in support of his high budget focus.
It is even more difficult to conclude that Mr. Eisenhower has persuaded the members of Congress, particularly the members of his own party, that this high budget is necessary for the health of the nation.
In the Senate, the bill to provide funds for the United States Information Service finally came to vote.
Only one Democrat and a mere handful of Republicans cast their ballots in favor of a higher budget figure.
All the others, including the President's own leaders, Senators Nolan, Senator Bridges, Senator Solv, and Solv, voted to reduce the appropriation for this agent.
It was a direct rebuff to the President.
The President's request was ignored in the House of Representatives as well. On the day after his appeal, the House of Representatives voted to shell the soil bank's place, at least for the time being.
You know the last time or the last few times I've been in Tennessee, I have found much objection to the soil bank, particularly in the small towns and in West Tennessee.
They think that it takes money out of circulation, and hurts more than it's health.
The demand proceeds for tired farm labor and for agricultural equipment, drop sharply, thus creating more problems than the soil bank was intended to solve.
Congressional leaders on both sides of the aisle have pointed out the magnitude of Mr. Eisenhower's task in attempting to defend his budget.
I think now that there will be substantial cuts. I expect to vote for them wherever I think they are deserved.
I don't believe in cutting something unless it is going to adverse the effect of security or the health of the nation.
There is little doubt that throughout the nation Mr. Eisenhower continues to be a man of great personal popularity.
He is a very popular figure, but it becomes more apparent every day that his budget figure is less and less popular.
This task week, Congress has been active and interested in many other matters also.
I have posed before the armed services committees, a nomination of Mr. Jason's entire arms strong, to be a system secretary of the nation.
I did so reluctantly, because I think generally at first it ought to be able to choose the cabinet and sub-t cabinet members that he wants,
and only a matter of deep conviction when one should oppose them.
The only other time that I have opposed any nomination of Mr. Eisenhower before the armed services committee was in the case of Tauber.
Mr. Tauber, do you will remember later resigned because of a conflict of interest?
Now positioned to Mr. Armstrong is based on another conflict of interest.
The conflict of interest of Adolf Winsel in the Dixon Yates matter, which all of you remember so well.
Mr. Armstrong was chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and at that time the Securities and Exchange Commission was considering the financing for the Dixon Yates deal, which was finally cancelled by the President.
And of course the Department of Justice said the contractors void the cost of the conflict of interest of Mr. Winsel.
Well Mr. Armstrong is chairman of this commission. Interrupted the hearings on the basis of a telephone call from Mr. Sherman had under the system to the test.
To keep out of the record and interrupt the hearings for several days, to keep out of the record Mr. Winsel's testimony until the appropriation for the transmission land of Dixon Yates to be acted on in the House of Representatives.
It is probable that Mr. Armstrong will be confirmed because of the desire to let a chief executive choose his own cabinet and sub-cap.
But I cannot in good conscience bring myself to vote for him. Thank you very much and goodbyes will next week at good time.
Ladies and gentlemen friends of Tennessee.
This week we saw some activity on the TVA front. It has been quite apparent for some time that TVA is not going to be able to get sufficient appropriations for a capital improvement and facilities such as steam plants and hydroelectric facilities.
So that our only chance is to have a self-financing program for the TVA whereby it can issue bonds, pay the interest on them and build its capital improvements from the bonds that were issued.
Today we are very fortunate in having as our guest one of the great supporters for many many years both in the House of Representatives and in the United States Senate of the Tennessee Valley Authority.
And of much progressive legislation and the field of agriculture housing that has done so much for the South.
I do not believe that any member of the Senate is better known or better liked and our good friend from Huntsville, Alabama.
Our Senator John Sparkman and he is here with us today. He said in the Archive that I have you on this program John.
And I wonder if you would tell us what you think about the legislation for the self-financing of the Tennessee Valley Authority.
First I ask this, let me thank you for letting me appear on this program with you.
I think it is absolutely necessary that we enact legislation to provide for self-financing for the TVA for the reasons that you so well stated.
Of course hearings have already been held in the House or in the process of being held on a somewhat similar bill over there.
Senator Kuppar has introduced a bill on the Senate side and Senator Kerr with other senators joining in have introduced one in the Senate.
I think the Kerr bill really does what we won't done and I hope we will be able to get it to you.
Well Senator Sparkman you and your colleague Senator Hill and my colleague Senator Groor and I have joined as co-sponsors of the Kerr bill and this was filed by Senator Kerr upon our suggestion because he is chairman of the subcommittee that will hold the hearings on it.
That is the so-called TVA self-financing bill.
That is correct. What are the main differences between Senator Kuppar who has a friend of TVA, the bill he filed and the bill that Senator Kerr has filed?
Well the essential differences I believe are these first Senator Kuppar limits his to a five-year period.
He also gives the Secretary of the Treasury I think too much power, too much control over the issuance of the bonds.
He also has an interest paying provision on the unpaid part up to this time not that it is secured by the bonds.
And he has a geographical limitation. I mean yes geographical limitation also.
Well we certainly do hope that between the two bills that we can work out something that the TVA can live by because it is absolutely necessary that we get legislation this year if the TVA is going to be able to survive.
Otherwise we will be starved to death.
That is right and this wonderful example of democracy is going to have a hard time getting along.
Well I think it is a spark when another matter of tremendous interest to us in Tennessee and I think one of the finest housing of parts of the housing program we have had is the Urban Renewal and Splunk Clearance program which many Alabama in Tennessee, cities and towns were interested.
You are chairman of the committee that is handling that legislation. How does it look? What is the situation?
Well as you know there has been some confusion the president in his budget message recommended $500 million for the next two years.
Housing Commissioner Albert Cole surprised us by asking for only 175 million for one year.
We have had some very fine testimony. One of the best witnesses by the way was the Mayor of Nashville, Mayor West.
My guess is that the committee will stick to the president's figure as a minimum and that we will vote at least $500 million additional money for the next two years.
Well that is our news by Senator Sparkman. It is wonderful if you are coming beyond this program. I just have to thank you two from the office who aspired to be vice president.
We had a good time and we did not exactly accomplish our aim in bed with you. It is a great experience but it grew a little bit more.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much Senator Sparkman. Until the next until the same time next week that is all for now.
In Washington Senator Estes Keapover of Tennessee met this week with representatives of the National Foundation for Infantil Paralysis and the Surgeon General's Office to discuss the current polio vaccine situation in the state of Tennessee.
Now here is Senator Keapover. Well I certainly have been enjoying talking with Dr. J. Mars and Brady and from the fact that Dr. Brady has just supplied me and other information I have.
I have learned that more than 60% of all of the youngsters in Tennessee under 20 years of age have begun taking the series of soft vaccinations to protect themselves from polio.
I feel that they are doing a very wise thing spending just a few minutes of their time to guarantee against a lifetime in an iron lung or a wheelchair.
However other figures provided by our state health officer Dr. Aurec Pucherson, the Surgeon General's Office and the National Foundation for Infantil Paralysis are not so encouraging.
They show that large numbers of our pre-stool children and young adults are still unprotected from paralytic polio. In fact almost 95% of our young adults between the ages of 20 and 40 have still not had the first of their anti-polio shots.
I want to personally urge all parents to have their pre-stool children vaccinated at the earliest opportunity.
And I hope that the same parents will not forget to get the soft shots for themselves. They, another adult, should remember that their children's shots and those of the neighbors will not protect them from paralytic polio.